I would love to give this a type.
But as you can see, I have some
things to work out here, right?
Well, it could have any
one of these strings, and
it has a payload if and
only if it's updateDraftCount, right?
The rest of them,
it doesn't have a payload, right?
And you're like, cool, cool, cool,
at least you can get
autocomplete on the type, right?
And make sure you have
the right properties, wait.
So there's a bunch of ways
that I could do this, right?
The most naïve way,
which we'll skip to the second one,
the most naïve way is to every case,
we'll have a increment action type,
and we'll have a decrement action type,
so on and so forth, right?
The cool thing about TypeScript and
its ability to figure stuff out,
we kind of saw this before where we said,
if there's no quote, return, and
then it knew what quote was, right?
You can give us some information
about the problem at hand and
it can kind of figure out the rest.
So I could say, I could have,
let's say, type, I don't know,
we'll call it, let's just call it, I'll
just call it action.
And this action can have
the type increment.
I might break this, I could break
this down, I'll just type increment,
decrement, Reset.
Let's see, what were the other ones?
The ones that didn't take payloads.
I think we're just updateCountFromDraft,
cool.
I gotta watch where I put my cursor,
and I can paste this in, right?
And those don't have a type.
And then the one that had to type, it's
gonna be a little bit different, which is,
type ActionWithPayload.
And in this case,
we'll say that the type is just this one.
And we'll go ahead and say the payload
in this case is a number, cool.
We gotta put some equal signs in there or
else things won't work.
And where did I leave
dangling code otherwise?
Down here where I got stuff like half
done, so we'll take that out for a minute.
Yeah, cuz that's from my
previous iteration earlier,
we'll get all that wired up in a second.
That's just a half written, cool.
I'll pull that back in.
And what I wanna show you is a few things.
I was gonna rewrite this one,
for instance.
Let's take out the body of it so
I can use it again.
Action.type, yeah.
Oop, let's actually pull out all these for
a moment.
I didn't replace any, so let's do both.
We'll say that this is now
either one of these actions, Or
that action with the payload.
And if you look at some of them,
Redux, for instance,
has abstractions to figure this all out.
If you use their create
action in Redux Toolkit,
it'll automatically type stuff for you.
But now let's look what happens.
In my reducer as I'm writing this logic,
I go action.type is a new type equals,
look at this,
cuz I've misspelled things before and
it falls through, right?
I can do increment, cool.
And then we'll say, we'll paste that in.
And then check this out.
action.type ===,
you know what's not on that list?
Increment.
You know why it's not on that list?
Cuz I already returned from that.
So it's not an option anymore, right?
Cool, and so you can imagine now
as I bring these all back in,
and I say if ( action.type0,
it's gotten nothing for
me, right, cuz at this point,
action.type is never,
because you handled all the cases
it could possibly be, right?
And then, if I go in here and
I want to dispatch an action,
Cool, I get type immediately.
I get all the values.
But let's say I use Increment,
And I wanna put a payload in.
It's like, no, cuz that's not one
of the ones that takes a payload.
Or more importantly, let's say that I
want the one that takes the payload, and
I forget that it takes a payload.
It's like, yeah,
you can't do that one, right?
And so the amount of mental space
that you do not need to reserve for
keeping track of that complexity,
it's just handled for you, right?
Because the union type of action, action
payload is like, cool, if this first
part matches, then it matches the fact
that it has no payload, right?
Moving on, if it matches this one,
then it has to have a payload of a number.
So types who kind of does some algebra
to figure this all out for you and
of all the possible combinations, right?
It is not a combination where you
have increment in a payload and
there's not a combination where you have
updateDraftCount and not a payload, right?
So as you go to use it, if you're saying
that it is the union of these two types,
then you get the fact that it will figure
that out based on the information that it
has, right?
And that's kind of above me on like,
is my number a number, right,
where you start to kinda tap into a lot
of the power here as well, right?
And everything is kind of keeping track.
And so some of those silly mistakes
that you might make, right, and it's one
of those ones if you have not made that
thing already, you definitely will.
And I think the other really cool thing
is then also one of the criticisms of
reducers and
particularly popular with the criticism
of Redux was that there was
a lot of boilerplate, right?
To stop yourself from mistyping an action,
what people used to do is const INCREMENT.
And this is the best use of my
time at my salary level, right?
Cuz if you misspell a variable name,
JavaScript yells at you.
But now you can't misspell this.
I mean you can, but
you will immediately know, right?
And so a lot of the extra work is
solved for you as well, right?
And having an autocomplete when
just using dispatch, either, a,
removes the need in a lot of cases for
simple cases for action creators.
I still like them cuz you can
do a thing where it's like, hey,
automatically type the action for
me based on stuff, right?
I'll show you an example if we get in
a second later where there is createAction
in Redux toolkit that's like, hey, just
give me a function about what arguments it
takes and what it spits out and I'll give
you the type for the action immediately.
But a lot of cool stuff,
but some of the power, one,
saves you in code you are gonna type
anyway to make your reducer safe,
but then also, I have made
the mistake of mistyping a case.
The other kind of example, and
I'm gonna see if I have one written up or
yeah, no, I gotta write it myself,
but I'll do a simplified version.
So we'll comment this out for a second.
And I could theoretically get away
without the return state since all cases
are handled if it was a If-else, but I'll
show you where this also becomes powerful.
We all know that the best practice in
switch statements is to have a default
case, right?
So if we do switch(action.type),
we will do case.
I love this, right, and I don't know.
We'll just return the initial state each
ones I don't have to remember how to add
numbers.
Decrement, So we do,
yeah, return the state as I like off
script, so we'll find out together
See if I made mistake in there.
Probably made a boo-boo.
I'll pull it out in a second cuz
I greatly prefer If-elses, so
my ability to write a switch statement
is slightly less than great,
but a lot of times, it'll say, yo, you
don't even need the default state, right?
It was curly cuz it'll figure
out that it was never.
Say I have a screenshot of it, but,
It looks about the same maybe,
cuz I didn't write real
implementations in here.
But the major point versus watching
me do a switch statement repeatedly
is that it'll analyze the code to figure
out, have you dealt with all the cases?
Are you aware that everything
is gonna happen here, right?
And then figure it out for you.
In the same way that action
type became never, right,
you can have a world where also you don't
need a default case cuz it knows that
it hit every single case along the way.
You can't dispatch a bad action that
would pass through, because it knows what
the valid actions are, and it will
analyze your code as you pass it in.
You can't forget a payload on
a valid action if it requires one.
And even though it's a less bad scenario,
you can't accidentally put a payload
on the wrong action, right, which is
sometimes we'll catch you of even, let's
be clear, were updateCountFromDraft and
updateDraftCount my two best names ever?
Probably not, right?
Even as I was live coding,
was I slightly where I was gonna
mess one of those up at some point?
Absolutely, right?
But the idea that I couldn't dispatch
the wrong action with a payload is
incredibly powerful, right, and
we can kinda have all of that in place.
So let me put back my if-elses
because I like the more honestly, and
I'm not rewriting that code.
I'm not rewriting add in front
of you over and over again.
So we can pull this in.
Right, and I know that I've
got type safety here, right?
And there's a bunch of really interesting,
I don't know if I can do it from scratch,
but I'll try to get the concept enough.
Okay, we can go look at these different
objects and derive a type from it.
I probably can't do it live,
I can look it up in a second
from the last time I wrote it.
Or we can look at createAction
from Redux toolkit.
But there are other ways that you
don't even have to type this much.
But to your question earlier,
getting all that stuff for
free in Redux toolkit, cuz React Redux and
Redux toolkit were rewritten
In TypeScript a year or two ago, right?
So they have full TypeScript support out
of the box, so you get all this for free.
So would I get super fancy with crazy
dynamic types if I was just doing a form
validation?
No, right?
The last thing I'll show you at the end
of this workshop is this crazy thing,
you can do polymorphic components and
even the example that inspired it.
I went to look at their source code and
they have a hard coded list, right?
Sometimes, it's just easier to be
explicit than to be totally dynamic.
So for short thing like this
will give you all the safety and
it will stop you from
the stupid mistake that I made.
And it's not that much more work
than the safeguards we were
putting regular JavaScript,
plus you get autocomplete in that sense.
Plus it will protect you from extra
properties in a way that even a lot of our
safeguards don't, because you could
be like, okay, we'll throw an error.
Yeah, that's great in development, right?
You've gotta be a little bit careful how
much you're throwing errors around when
you push it to production, right,
cuz it's like taking the whole UI down.
It's usually not great,
it's usually frowned upon, so
it gets a little bit trickier.
But the amount you get for free by
just one, I think we saw two things,
what an any will do to you,
it infected everything, and it made it so
I made a boo boo preparing this.
And two, just the amount of, even
autocomplete and knowing that I handled
all the cases and stuff along those
lines is incredibly powerful.
And this is my point that I made
earlier in the workshop that, yeah,
having to have the type and
not just doing whatever you want, I guess,
is a slightly more typing, pun unintended.
But the payoff of typing,
you save later, and
also weird head-scratching errors,
you have to throw console logs in.
I am aware that the exists,
I don't care, saves you later.